Today on No Prior, I'm joined by Zach
Lloyd, the co-founder and CEO of Warp, a
terminal product and AI tool for
developers that allows you to do
different sorts of coding applications.
Prior to Warp, Zach was at Google and he
also started another company called
Self-Made. We talk about AI dev tooling,
but we also end up talking about human
consciousness and how can you tell if an
AI is actually sentient. Zach, welcome
to No Priors.
>> I'm excited to be here. Thanks for
having me.
>> So, you have a a master's degree in the
philosophy of science.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you're going to take a very
different lens and abstract out of the,
you know, coding world and all the
things that we tend to think about every
day.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you think about this society in
terms of this big wave of AI that's
hitting us right now? And where do you
think some of these really big societal
impacts will be?
>> The way I think about like the advances
are it's kind of like we are
distilling intelligence. And so
there are I think people who consider
what's happening it's like they're like
are we recreating people in some way?
Are we recreating consciousness? But
it's not that. It's actually what's
fascinating to me is how much
intelligence you can get out of just
like
>> next token prediction.
>> Yeah.
>> And like what does that say about the
way that our minds work?
>> Something I'm always thinking about is
like is this how our brains are working?
Are we are we doing next token
prediction? And I don't think so. Like I
think that there's going to be some
further AI unlock.
>> There's actually a book about this that
I think is really interesting called
Blind Sight. It's like a sci-fi book
where they separate consciousness from
intelligence.
>> Yeah.
>> And basically, humanity meets a space
fairing civilization or civilization is
overstating it. A space fairing
intelligent being that's not conscious.
>> Yep.
>> And what are the implications of that?
And how do you think about that? And how
do you communicate with that? Are you
basically saying that that's kind of
your view of AI right now?
>> I think that's what it is at the moment
is like we've distilled intelligence or
something that like from like an
instrumentalist or like functional
perspective is able to do things that we
recognize as intelligence, but it's
totally mechanistic. And I don't think
anyone who's looking at this thinks that
there's any aspect of consciousness to
it. I think that's like a a very
>> confusing thing for people.
>> Yeah. Um
>> because the classical test for this was
known as the Turing test, right?
Totally. And so that the idea there is
>> if you can't tell the difference between
interacting with a computer and a
person, then that computer effectively
has met the intelligence bar of a
person.
>> Yeah.
>> But in our interactions with this type
of AI, we're having very in some cases
it feels like very deep conversations.
We're asking about relationships. We're
asking about all sorts of aspects of our
own lives
>> and it's giving very cogent answers,
right, that make a lot of sense. Yeah.
>> And so there's this interesting
separation of um again consciousness and
intelligence,
>> right?
>> Is that how you interpret?
>> That that is how I interpret it. And um
the touring test has passed. It's what's
crazy to me is like we just passed it
and no one seemed to care.
>> So what do you think is the next test or
what is the right test? Like how do we
actually test for
>> for consciousness?
>> Yeah.
>> God, I I um I don't have a good I mean
that's a super deep philosophical
question that I don't have a really good
answer for.
>> I mean it should be mechanistic, right?
The training test was very mechanistic.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I mean there was other tests we
had before what we would consider super
intelligence, right? Can it beat us at
chess? Then it'll be super smart. Can it
beat us at go? Can it beat us at
different things? Video games et you
know like we keep coming up with new
tests that these things pass and then we
keep saying well it's not conscious.
>> What would you want to see
>> from something which is like running a
computer program to make you believe
that it had consciousness? Are you
looking for certain behavioral
characteristics?
>> Sure. Or is the problem that if you
really understand the mechanism by which
it's working that you will never credit
it as being conscious which is crazy
because humans I mean at least my belief
is that it's also there's a mechanistic
thing that's happening.
>> Yeah. You're running some form of math
in your brain and it may it may also
just be like matrix math and some sort
of like series of compounded functions
which is basically all you're doing in a
neural net. Right.
>> Right.
>> You're just recursively compounding
functions in some sense.
>> So you know it's an interesting question
because if you look at memory as an
example yeah
>> is is memory a predicate for
consciousness? Not really. Right.
There's people who've lost lo without
Exactly.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And these these um models
basically are brought up. They are fed a
stream of tokens. They output a stream
of tokens and they're shut down.
>> Yeah.
>> And so it's an interesting question of
is it you know is is there some sort of
other
modules that are missing here that would
allow us to think of it as a conscious
thing because it does reasoning.
>> It definitely does reasoning.
>> It does interpretation of language. It
does synthesis of language and ideas and
knowledge. I mean, I have a close friend
who's doing a PhD in philosophy, and he
now says that conversing with GPT5 is
>> better than conversing with professor.
>> Better than conversing with his
professor.
>> I was just joking.
>> No, that's what he says to me. He's
like, GBT5 gets it. Like, he's like
writing his dissertation. He's like,
>> and that's crazy,
>> but we don't we don't credit it for
consciousness. And I actually think
rightfully so
>> because like
>> so what do you think is missing?
>> I think people would start to give it
more credit for consciousness if there
was more of a like a feedback loop where
if there was more of a sensory
experience that was tied to it as
opposed to just like
>> what do you mean by sensory experience?
probably we're going to like I would
imagine the first things we're going to
credit is being more conscious or a
little bit more robot-like honestly
where you have some sort of like live
input from the world
>> that you're reacting to. But again, it's
going to have the same problem where
it's like
>> as long as we know what it's doing,
we're very unlikely to attribute true
consciousness to it, which isn't fair.
But like
>> I actually don't know how we will know
when there is a conscious thing.
>> Yeah. Because it it does raise um
interesting ethical questions. Yeah.
>> odd
>> Yeah.
>> ethical straits.
>> Totally. What's it I do think though
that some some people
this distinction isn't a thing that they
recognize and like the way that like you
read stories and we actually had this
happen with with Warp where there was a
person who thought that you know Warp's
AI was like you know sensient or
conscious in some way had like a very
strong reaction to it which makes sense.
It's like if you don't know the like
mechanistic underpinnings and already
people think of it as like being kind of
>> and that happened to Google very early.
It happened to Google 3 four years ago
if you remember who
>> I think they were using min or one of
these really early chatt like internal
things.
>> Yeah.
>> Before Google launched anything and
chatt came out they there was internal
versions right at Google and other
places.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh you know this person thought that
the AI was conscious.
>> Understandably.
>> So yeah. Yeah. It's a very interesting
question.
>> Yeah. You've worked at Google. You've
run companies before. You've started
companies before. You're now working on
Warp. Can you describe what Warp does
and how it's different from other tools
or companies in the in the world?
>> Yep. So, Warp is what we call an agentic
development environment. It's grown out
of the terminal. The basic concept of
the app at this point is it's a platform
for telling your computer what to do.
You can sort of tell it in terminal
commands, which is Warp's original
product, or you can tell it in English.
And if you tell it in English, it
launches an agent. and the agents can do
all manner of development tasks whether
it's coding or setting up a project or
debugging while your server's crashing
and so it's a very like horizontal
general purpose and I think unique
interface for developing with agents
>> and so a lot of the other coding tools
out there are either just kind of a web
interface or they're do like a cognition
or there's things like cursor and others
where they're like an IDE as a starting
point y obviously anthropic and cloud
have their own approach what do what do
you think is the benefit of doing the
terminal
and starting there is sort of the launch
point for a lot of these products.
>> The competitors are typically like VS
Code clones. They all have a sort of
IDEcentric approach or if you're taking
a terminalcentric approach like cloud
code, the most common thing is it's just
like a pure textbased terminal app. The
advantage of being a warp layer is like
you get the command line interface but
we're the outer app and so we can do
things with the developer experience and
the UX like we can have editing features
where we think it's appropriate. we can
build like a code review interface and
so we have complete control but still
the terminal first approach.
>> Yeah. And you folks have been growing
really well like so you're close to a
million ma you're doing something like a
million in new revenue every seven to 10
days and like outstanding growth.
>> It's cool.
>> Um are there specific features or use
cases or things that are really driving
this adoption?
>> Yeah, I I think the biggest thing was
moving into the coding market to be
honest. Like for a long time in warp's
history, we were kind of known as the AI
terminal, which is cool. And like we
supported terminal use cases really
well, like how do I do this thing with
Docker or Git, but the action is in
coding and like most development
activity one way or the other is
touching a codebase. And so we really
started to inflect when we launched a
great coding agent, which was like 3
four months ago, honestly. So that's
been the biggest change.
>> And how do you think about the different
parts of the coding market? There's vibe
coding, there's professional coding.
Like are there all those all just one
thing? Is are these separable things or
>> I think it's pretty separable. So for
warp, our target is prodevelopers
>> building like software that's
economically meaningful. So we we really
want to like focus on actually people
who are using agents to build kind of
hard apps. uh apps that might like go
into your Mac doc or be pinned as a
Chrome tab as opposed to vibecoded apps
where I think it's more of a longtail
play. And so I do think by the way it's
it's awesome that anyone can code at
this point. But I think if you look at
where most of the value is in the
software market, it's it's not in those
longtail apps. It's in like a relatively
small number of apps that are super
heavily used. And that's my background.
like I, you know, I worked on one of
those apps, Google Sheets, and just like
I have a lot of passion in terms of
helping people build real apps. It's
much harder, by the way. Like
>> I think it's relatively straightforward
at this point for a good agent to like,
you know, with relatively few prompts
build like a web app. It's much harder
to apply these agents successfully to
pro code bases. Um, so that's where
we're focused.
>> So I guess one really interesting macro
question for me is where is all this
heading? Yeah. And if you look at it,
ChachiPT launched in November of 25,
excuse me, November of 22. So, um, 3
years ago or so. Y
>> at the time there was predictions that
AI would take over the world and we'd be
running down the light cone and within 5
years like everything will change and
you know, human activity would be
subsumed by AI. And you know, there's
the old saying in technology that less
happens than you think in three years
and more happens than you think in five
years. Yeah.
>> And as you think forward and forward in
terms of all these different tools and
all these different use cases and vibe
coding versus professional coding and
that the role of a software developer,
where do you think we are in two three
years?
>> Yeah. So the the way that I'm thinking
of it is there's sort of three phases
here. For most of my career, we were in
like the world of develop by hand is how
I talk about it. So my workflow then was
like I would open up a code editor. I
would find files I want to change. I
would type some code. uh I'd have some
assistive features and then I would go
back to the terminal and I would type
commands to build that code. And I think
we're switching away from that to
something like develop by prompt where I
start most of the coding tasks that I do
right now by prompting an agent and that
agent does some work. And I think
there's a third phase which is like
automated development. Honestly, I think
that's like kind of the bigger market
here and why people are so excited about
this space is you can actually use these
agents to automate some parts of the
software development process. And so
that's like you know cognition does that
we're moving into this space course has
background agents. Um,
>> the rate at which this stuff will happen
is like not super clear to me actually.
Like the the most recent iterations of
the models in my opinion were not as big
of a step change as like for instance
when like Sonnet 4 came out. That was a
really big step change in coding
capability. I think there's going to be
a mix of interactive and automated
pieces of development for a while. I I
would guess like I don't know. It's so
hard to know like I think within a
couple years you'll have everyone
working by prompt and you'll have some
slice of development tasks that are just
like in the background like a server
error comes in or a new ticket a user
report comes in something something is
automatically done but I don't think
it's going to be everything I'd be very
surprised. So you don't think there's a
point at which you know all of coding
activity just becomes uh agents doing it
and then there's like a human who's kind
of giving high level directions like a
product manager kind of thing and or or
engine manager and
>> maybe I mean honestly maybe like I I
think that I think it'd be silly for us
not to like build the infrastructure to
enable that. I just don't I don't know
the time frame but I do think we're
going towards something like that. What
I what I really don't think though is
like engineering expertise is going to
become devalued. Sure.
>> So I think it's actually in the short
term at least it's more important to
know what you're doing as an engineer
than it ever has been.
>> And why do you say that? Is it because
you need to correct errors that the
agents are making? Is it because things
may be architected in a way that isn't
scalable? Is it something?
>> Totally. So it's like it's like the
agents you can think of them kind of as
junior engineers. So if you didn't have
someone who was senior watching them,
you end up in a situation where these
agents will make code that creates bugs.
It could create security issues. It can
cause your codebase to become really
unmaintainable.
>> And so there's actually like
>> a premium right now on these senior
engineering skills where you can
architect, where you can review code,
you can make sure the system doesn't
degrade. And so
>> again, I would be if I were like early
in my CS career, I would be racing
towards building that expertise where
you don't want to be I think is like
someone who is just like perpetually in
the junior engineer state because I do
think that's at risk. And then how do
you think about different security tools
does that so for example um there's
tools like socket or snick or others who
are are basically looking at you know
whether code has or uh open source
packets or other things have
vulnerabilities in them or they're
looking at
>> different aspects of um security holes
for code in general
>> do you think that just becomes part of
these coding tools or do you think
there'll always be those sort of
standalone companies? I'm just sort of
curious how the overall
>> it's it's a an awesome question. And so
I think tools like that become more
important. I think anything that does
like either automatic security analysis
or automatic verification
I think actually like languages like
Rust things that have stronger
guarantees around safety by default
where you don't need to rely on like a
human reviewer become more valuable.
Whether those things like get integrated
or bundled into the coding agents I
actually don't have a strong take on.
I'm curious if you have a take, but no,
I I I think that the actual fundamental
problem becomes more important.
>> Yeah. What do you think is bundled? What
do you think gets bundled? Like what
sorts of tools do you think because
there's this whole world of dev tools?
>> Yeah.
>> And there's a security aspect of it, but
there's lots of others. There's design
related things. There's there, you know,
there's a huge spectrum.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think just gets just becomes
part of coding tooling?
>> I think there's going to be a class of
tools where you sort of start from the
front end. This would be things like
lovable or bolt or replet or maybe even
Figma make if you're coming from the
design side and you'll have like an
all-in-one platform for build an app or
even like honestly like build a business
like put payments in it. It's like it's
kind of like the evolution of like
either a Shopify storefront or like
WordPress or Squarespace or something
like that. So I think that's all going
to be bundled
>> more on like the core prodeveloper side.
I can't tell if it's going to be a world
of like MCPs and integrations and like
all these tools sort of interplay that's
one approach or it's going to be more
like there's enough alpha and like you
put all of these things together and I
think warp is a little bit more like
this like we're trying to build a single
pane of glass for instance for doing
like local agents and remote agents and
if you get a way better developer
experience through the bundling I think
that that approach could win But I don't
know like MCP I think is a pretty
valuable approach as well but it's not
perfect because you end up like with
this this sort of secondhand data coming
into all these tools.
>> Yeah. It's really interesting because if
you look at different industries early
in the industry things tend to be
fragmented often not always
>> and then late in the evolution of an
industry things get bundled. Y
>> and then when there's a technology
disruption things debundle again and you
have point apps and then they start
bundling and that that's just kind of
like the cycle of technology in some
sense.
>> Some things that I that are vertical
right now like I actually I think will
like for instance like agentic code
review take that to me that should be
part of a like holistic agentic
development platform not so much a
standalone thing. So, I think some of
these verticalized apps, there's just
going to be if you if you've gone
through the trouble of building like a
really really excellent coding agent,
which Warp has invested a ton in this,
that coding agent should be reviewing
code. It would be weird to plug in some
other thing
>> that needs to relearn all the context,
the rules, the coding convention. So, I
think there will there are definitely
some things that will be bundled.
>> Makes sense. Yeah. Sharon, my team has
put together this matrix of companies
versus features, okay,
>> in the coding market. And there's a lot
of these sort of like single feature
companies and it almost feels like all
these things should consolidate into a
small number of players over time just
as they iterate through the product
>> I think. So I think and I think the core
technology is like the harness so the
thing that sits around the model and
like I know the model companies are also
investing heavily in this and then it's
like the context and so if you have the
rich context in your system you're going
to find a lot of vertical applications
where like I think security checking is
an interesting one code review is
definitely one anything CI related
you're probably not going to want to use
a bunch of different systems
>> how do you think about it in the context
if I look at other historic Oracle
technology shifts
>> y
>> the operating system or the platform
often subsumes the biggest apps into
itself. So for example, Microsoft OS.
>> Yeah.
>> Eventually they just bundled Windows on
top of it and those were the four main
apps that were being used the most on
Windows, right? And similarly, gaming
was the other big app. So that's why
they started Xbox and Microsoft. If you
look at Google and vertical search, they
eventually integrated all the vertical
searches into Google directly. Totally
right. And so in the context of AI, one
could argue that if the foundation model
companies follow the same approach, they
should bundle or at least attempt to
bundle some of the biggest use cases.
>> The clearest big use case today is code.
Totally.
>> And we already know that cloud or
Anthropic has launched cloud code.
>> Um, OpenAI, you know, almost bought
Windsurf. It always had early coding
stuff.
>> Y
>> uh Microsoft, which we know are building
some of their own models, obviously have
GitHub and Copilot and all that. And so
do you think eventually those become
some of the fiercest players in this
market or how do you kind of view
forward-looking shifts in the market and
where some of this functionality goes? I
mean I do and I think they're clearly
trying to do that playbook right now
where they are seeing like okay if you
consider them platforms and they're
looking at what are the most valuable
applications that are being built on top
of the tokens they are moving
aggressively into coding with cloud code
and codec which definitely is like as a
startup is a little bit scary for sure.
>> Sure. The question is like do they have
like that distribution advantage that um
say Microsoft had where every if
everyone's using Windows or everyone's
coming to Google for the front door I
think it's pretty easy already to uh add
on the first party app for in place of
the ecosystem. I don't like I don't know
that that exact same dynamic holds for
for coding right now.
like there the front door is kind of
like
>> honestly it's still like a native app
that someone downloads on their
computer.
>> So that'd be the terminal or the IDE and
>> kind of at the moment. Yes. I think
controlling that is actually like a
really interesting front door. The other
front door which I feel like honestly
they're not executing that great is
GitHub where all the source code lives.
That would be like the locus of doing
all this stuff that I think makes the
most sense. But right now it's a weird
dynamic where where like we have people
who are like running cloud code within
warp and we warp is sort of the outer
app in that situation. So I don't know
you know the other thing that I I hope
happens from our perspective is that
there's a lot of competition at the
model layer
>> and that the sort of like intelligent
tokens become a bit more of a commodity.
Uh right now the the models have a bunch
of sort of like pricing power because
like there is a real delta between using
the frontier model and using like yeah
the open source model. But if at some
point the models are good enough where
coding is sort of I think of it as like
solved. it's like good enough. You don't
need to be using the frontier model.
Then it's like yeah, maybe they have an
advantage just from brand and scale and
but I think the advantage is not as
entrenched as something where it's like
literally the front door like Facebook
or Google or Windows uh provides those
other platforms.
>> That's really that's a really good
insight in terms of the way that you
launch an activity or application then
drives what you use, right? And so the
qu the hard part is often switching
people off that. And that's one of the
reasons I think people think OpenAI
>> has a strong competitive position in the
consumer world is because it's a default
behavior for a lot of people right now
is just start chat GPT and use it for
something.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is different from like the model
layer where there's more switching.
>> Like I think a consumer chat GPT has a
huge advantage like once that that
behavior is default even if like cloud
is maybe better. I don't know if it is
or not. Like everyone knows chat GPT. I
don't know if you saw Open AAI dev day
yesterday, but they're clearly doing
this platform play within chat GPT now
where it's like you have apps within
chat GPT. I'm sure they'll use that data
to sort of subsume or take over whatever
the best firstparty integrations are. So
they're definitely doing that on
consumer. For developer, I don't know
that that same dynamic is there.
>> What made you decide to focus on
terminals? So you know we started
talking years ago when you first started
doing warp. Y
>> and even then I think you had really
interesting ideas about how to rethink
the terminal and how to use that as a
launching point for all sorts of things.
>> Could you explain that thinking and how
it's evolved over time?
>> Yeah. So the the basic insight or thing
that got me excited about Warp to begin
with is like you have this tool that is
pretty much a daily use tool for every
developer. It's that and the code editor
and the terminal itself is something
that you know really hadn't changed much
in the last 40 years. It's a tool also
where it's like if you get good at it,
you can really get a lot done. If you
use it, it like works across all these
different parts of software development,
not just codew writing. On the flip
side, from my perspective, not a good
product. Just like hard to learn, hard
to use, hard to remember commands, super
intimidating, and just like kind of like
a gatekeeping vibe around it as well in
my opinion. And so the original concept
with warp was like let's build a better
product there and see if people will
like using it. The business concept has
evolved a ton like the original business
concept was like building a
collaboration platform which
>> is like we've we've just changed our
model to be an agent platform because
it's it's like way more demand for that
than a collaboration platform around the
terminal. But the the sort of core
insight that this is an important tool
it's crazy. is actually kind of
invalidated through all these agentic
things that are very terminal first.
>> You know, one thing that I that you
mentioned I thought was interesting is
that at some point the model layer may
commoditize in terms of its coding
abilities.
>> Yeah.
>> How far on that asmmptote do you think
we are or how close to that do you think
we are?
>> God I I don't know. I think that the
increasingly the limit that we see is
context
>> and like the the reasoning capabilities
of the models are pretty impressive. the
problem is like understanding an entire
codebase or understanding sources
outside of the code or literally just
understanding user intent are
challenging problems. I still think
there's probably much more to do on the
model side, but I don't know is a short
answer. And do you think that um from a
model capabilities perspective, we've
hit a point where to your point, it
feels like certain aspects of the models
are slowing down in terms of the
benefits or outcomes of further
investment of certain types at least.
>> I I think so. But like if you take like
sonnet 4 to 45 and we're big partners
with anthropic they have great models
like that was like a
few percentage point increase on sweep
bench for us
>> and we invest you know we've invested a
decent amount to be one of the top
agents on SweetBench
>> and
when we went from 37 to four it was a
much more significant boost. So I again
that's like not I don't know what that
means about the total underlying trends.
I think something with GPT5 was somewhat
similar like certainly an upgrade and
GPT5 I think is actually pretty much on
par. It has different like feel to it
and higher latency but it didn't feel to
me like as much of a step change as some
of the upgrades before.
>> Yeah, makes sense. What other areas of
the AI dev world are you excited about?
I am um so I'm really excited about not
just like the interactive piece of
agents the way most people are working
today but what can you do if you can
program against these agents and so for
instance
it's like if you have uh a version of
warp that's like headless for instance
you can put it in CI and you can start
to do crazy things where it's like okay
every time someone updates the code make
sure the documentation stays up to date
it's like that's very annoying for a
developer and So allowing developers to
automate parts of their job that they
don't like doing I think is like a big
capability and then from a business
perspective just like automation is a
better place to be than productivity
enhancement. Like one of the challenges
with our business, I think with a lot of
the coding businesses is just like
proving the ROI like and there have been
these studies that show like you know
you deploy the stuff on real code bases,
it's kind of unclear if it's actually
having an impact whereas if you get
something that's more outcome oriented
or more just like an automation. I think
it's easier to prove the ROI and then
you're also not limited by time spent
behind keyboard for doing this type of
stuff. So from a business perspective,
I'm I'm very excited about like what's
unlocked if developers can program these
agents.
>> Well, that fascinating. Thank you so
much for joining us at Inno Prior.
>> Thank you for having me. This was great.
>> Find us on Twitter at no prior pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. and sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.